Now, we're going to talk
about customising Next js.
And the configuration of it and
stuff like that.
So, like I said out of the box, Next.js
has a really good experience, right?
Because it handles a lot of things for
us like the Webpack, Babel.
So all the different rendering modes that
we'll talk about, pretty much everything.
But if you wanna hook into that,
and change some of it, opt in,
opt out, extend, do things like that.
We actually have this next config js file,
that you can put on
the root of your project.
And that allows you to hook
into the next day as, and
you can pretty much do
whatever you want there.
Specific to the Next js or
not specific to next year,
is things like changing Webpack.
And this is where you would add
support for sass or stylus.
Or less or maybe there's an SVG Loader for
Webpack that you want to turn, react.
SVG files into react components,
something like that,
like literally everything you
normally would have done.
You would do it here.
For like create react app,
the equivalent would be, okay.
Create react app,
doesn't have the loader that I want or
doesn't have have it configured
the way that I want from there.
I think you'd have to do like the eject,
the configuration,
yourself that you can modify.
And then you can no longer
use create react app.
Well, there's no eject feature here,
because you're always
gonna be using nextjs.
You just can extend it by
doing something like this.
So, to me, this is a better experience,
than having to opt out of something.
And that's because next
js as is a framework and
not a set of built in opinions, that are
managed by some scripts, it's a framework.
So that's the difference.
Other frameworks kind of
do something similar.
I know knucks,
which is a view version of Next js,
basically it's very inspired
by next as is called knucks.
They do something very similar
with their configuration file,
where you can just configure
everything from that file.
So pretty legit.
And obviously, Gatsby does something
very similar as well, so yeah.
So yeah, like I said,
you can create this config file, and
basically there's a couple
ways you can do it.
So if we come down here,
we can say next.config.js,
and you can module.exports.
This object like this all right, and
you really don't have anything else.
In fact, if I were to restart this you
can see the first right there it says.
Found a change and the next day is config,
restart the service changed in effect.
That means next as is looking for
this file, like it knows it exists.
It's a special file name, so
the name is very important.
So restart the server here,
you'll see I get a warning.
So warning, detected next config.js, but
there was no export configuration found,
is basically saying there's nothing here.
Now, I don't know if you did that
intentionally, or not, but hey,
there's nothing here.
We should probably figure some stuff out,
right?
So there are a lot of different
things we can do here.
Like for instance, and in my site here,
the course curriculum,
I'm talking about Webpack.
And I'll just kind of do that here.
So if you wanted to change
some things about Webpack.
Like, I don't know, maybe there was
like some really dope Webpack plugin,
that you wanted to do.
You can add that here,
because everything in this object.
Is the same objects that's
on the Webpack config,
except they're gonna merge it with theirs.
So it's not gonna
completely blow out there.
So what they have is gonna merge the two.
So you can see that I'm pretty sure it
uses a package called Webpack merge,
that merges Webpack config smartly.
So you can add whatever you want here.
So versus if you have some plugin,
that you want to add it to
my webpack plugin, right?
You can do that.
And this is how you can
add functionality to it.
So for all my Webpack people that love
getting crazy, you can still do it.
You can do it here, and not have to opt
out of everything that they give you.
Pretty legit.
So that's one way.
The other way is that gives you
just a little bit more power,
as you can return a function.
And this function has two arguments
you get, what's called the face.
Then you get this object here,
that has a property on it called.
I think it's called default config, maybe
I'm pretty sure that's what it's called.
So the default config is literally
the default configuration for
your next config, the one that gets
created for you, if you don't make one.
So with this, we have this phase here.
This phase is gonna be a string,
is actually gonna come from
something called, let me see.
I think like imports from next.js,
constants, yeah, next constants.
And, basically,
there are some phases in here.
There we go, so
you can see phase production builds,
phase production server, server prop,
different things like that.
So, I'm gonna say, phase production build.
And basically,
I can do something like this.
I can say, if phase triple
equals phase production build.
Basically what this means is,
if I'm running a production build
inside of next js, run this code.
So this allows me to change
the configuration depending on
what next js is doing.
So a better example, would be let's
look at phase development build, and
see how that goes.
So I'm pretty sure that one
is phase development server,
or something like that.
So we say,
phase equals phase development server, and
then we do something
like this console log.
I'm in dev mode here.
And you can return an object here,
which will be your config.
But for now it's gonna return
the default config, and
also return the default config down here,
right?
So we can do that and
then when we start this.
Yeah, I forgot you can't do.
This config file doesn't
get compiled by Babel, so
you can't do imports and stuff like that.
So we got to go back to common js,
and use some good requires.
There we go.
So require that.
And you see right here,
I'm in dev mode, right?
So you can see I'm in dev mode again,
that's because it loaded up a bundle,
right?
This is a full stack app.
So we have a server side build,
and we have a client side built.
And this was a demo for both of them.
So a lot of that that twice.
And yeah, it's pretty powerful.
So you can do some pretty,
pretty interesting stuff here.
And this is just one use
case of what you can do.
So yeah, pretty interesting convention.
Wow, I did not mean to close that.
You open that back up, there we go, okay.
All right, and then I added a link here,
that links to all the different phases.
It's not documented in their docs,
at least not where I could find.
But if you just go look in their
source code, you can find them here.
So, all different types of stuff,
these four phases here, so
we got export,
we'll talk about export production build.
I talked about that, production server is
when it's live running on a server and
production.
And develop the servers when
you run next by itself.
So yeah pretty hot.
Pretty nice here.
I'm a big fan of is
looking at source code.
I go look at source code.
I think more than I do documentation,
so it's just I prefer sometimes.
So yeah, I'll do that,
any questions on that?
On the config.
>> You have to modify the default config,
or you just return a config object?
>> For question, so I'm not,
I usually don't modify arguments.
I try to keep things mutable,
because you might cause side effects.
So and especially because I'm pretty
sure they do the merging for you.
So I think it's safe to
do something like this.
If you're gonna do some modifications,
as you can just spread over the default
config, and
then you can make your mods here.
So whatever your mods are,
yeah, you can make them here.
So if you were gonna do
something like Webpack,
then you would do your Webpack stuff here,
right?
So you just spread over
the default config, before and
it's brand new object and
then you do your stuff here.
And I think that's a little safer
than trying to modify this thing.
Which yeah,
I would stray away from modifying
arguments in JavaScript in general.
I would always steer away from that,
especially objects and things like that.